<frontmatter>
  title: "User guide"
</frontmatter>

{% from 'scripts/macros.njk' import embed, step, thumbnail with context %}

<h1 class="display-3">User guide</h1>

<div class="lead">

Welcome to the RepoSense user guide. This user guide takes you through a three-step approach to adopting RepoSense for your own use.
</div>

<!-- ==================================================================================================== -->
<hr class="thick">

In case you missed it, the overview of RepoSense is given below.

{{ embed("**RepoSense overview**", "../index.md#overview") }}

<box type="definition" seamless>

**Report**: We use the term _report_ to refer to the web-based visualization generated by RepoSense. You can also think of it as a _dashboard_.
</box>

# {{ thumbnail('1') }} **Explore** real-life examples


If still not entirely sure if RepoSense matches your needs, you can use the examples of real-life RepoSense reports given below to get some sense of what visualizations it produces.
  {{ embed("**A showcase of RepoSense reports**", "../showcase.md") }}

As you explore the above examples, you can refer to the following section to learn how to read and interact with those reports.
  {{ embed("**Using reports**", "usingReports.md") }}

# {{ thumbnail('2') }} **Generate** your own reports

The next step is to generate your own RepoSense reports, either in your computer, or on one of the remote platforms we support.

  {{ embed("**Generating reports**", "generatingReports.md") }}

As you generate reports, you may need to learn how to customize those reports further.

  {{ embed("**Customizing reports**", "customizingReports.md") }}


# {{ thumbnail('3') }} **Share** your reports

Finally, you can learn how to share those reports with others, and how to automate the whole process.

  {{ embed("**Sharing reports**", "sharingReports.md") }}

If you encounter problems at any step, you can refer to our FAQ, the troubleshooting guide, or post in our issue tracker.

  {{ embed("Appendix: **FAQ**", "faq.md") }}
  {{ embed("Appendix: **Troubleshooting guide**", "troubleshooting.md") }}

<br>
<br>

#### <span class="text-green">{{ thumbnail(":fas-heart:") }} <md>Happy RepoSensing!</md></span>