{% set title = "Appendix: Using `--init` flag" %}
<frontmatter>
  title: "{{ title | safe }}"
</frontmatter>

{% from 'scripts/macros.njk' import embed, step with context %}

<h1 class="display-4"><md>{{ title }}</md></h1>

<div class="lead">

The `--init` flag makes it easier for new users to get into using RepoSense, by guiding them step-by-step through a wizard with the most essential flags.
</div>

This guide serves to assist new users in understanding what the `--init` flag is doing, and eventually helps them understand how to use RepoSense without the `init` flag.

If you have yet to do so, download the latest JAR file from our releases. The instructions are given below. You may ignore Step 3, as the `init` flag supersedes it.

{{ embed("**Generating reports → Generating reports locally**", "generatingReports.md#section-generating-reports-locally") }}

### Explanation of each step

#### List of repository locations to be analyzed: `--repos`

Upon using `java -jar RepoSense.java --init`, the wizard will ask for a list of repository locations, separated by spaces.

This list of repository locations is necessary, as it will be the repositories analyzed by RepoSense at the end of the wizard.

RepoSense accepts both remote Git repository HTTPS links, as well as paths to local Git repositories.

Given below is the actual CLI flag being used. These embedded subsections will be given throughout this guide to help you pinpoint and locate it in your future references.

{{ embed("**CLI syntax reference → `--repos`**", "cli.md#section-repos") }}

<br>

#### Start date of the analysis: `--since`

The wizard will ask for the start date of the period of the analysis next.

The start date, by default, will be one month before the current date. It is hence not necessary to include when you are using the CLI to run RepoSense, but it is likely that you will want to analyze a period with a different starting date.

Given below is the actual CLI flag being used.

{{ embed("**CLI syntax reference → `--since`**", "cli.md#section-since") }}

#### Start date of the analysis: `--until`

The wizard will ask for the until date of the period of the analysis next.

The until date, by default, will be the current date. Again, it is not necessary to include when you are using the CLI to run RepoSense.

Given below is the actual CLI flag being used.

{{ embed("**CLI syntax reference → `--until`**", "cli.md#section-until") }}

#### Viewing the report locally: `--view`

The wizard will ask if you want to start a local server to view the report immediately after the report is generated. By indicating `Y`, a server will be started on your computer on port 9000, where the report can be viewed at http://localhost:9000/.

This flag is used without any arguments in this basic wizard.

Given below is the actual CLI flag being used.

{{ embed("**CLI syntax reference → `--view`**", "cli.md#section-view") }}

<br>

### Conclusion

At this stage, the `--init` wizard would have completed, and the generation of the RepoSense report is underway. It may take a few seconds to a few minutes, depending on the number of repositories entered, as well as your network speed.

After the report generates, you may want to proceed to [Using reports](usingReports.html) in order to better understand the interface and how you can use the report generated by RepoSense. You may also want to take a closer look at the other config flags provided by RepoSense at [CLI syntax reference](cli.html) to understand what other features are available.

